Durban — There was an outcry after the Umhlathuze Traffic Department issued a 52-year-old man a R2 000 fine for urinating in public at the Richards Bay Boardwalk this week. Social media users shone the spotlight on a variety of issues, including the availability of clean public toilets as well as contributory factors to uncleanliness in the province’s CBDs after it was posted and shared on Facebook on Wednesday. City of Umhlathuze spokesperson, Bongani Gina confirmed the authenticity of the ticketing which happened on Tuesday. On Facebook, Fanzoh Sikwayo warned others who might find themselves in the same position. “This thing of this a fine is tough. If you know you urinate in public, watch yourself, you might end up having your fingerprints with authorities for something that could have been avoided.” Siyabonga Kingmaceeya Ncwane touched on law enforcement’s lack of empathy toward the man, whom he assumed to have been desperate to relieve himself: “Do these police know what is like to be so hard-pressed when there is no toilet near, or worse, no toilet at all, especially in filthy CBDs?”. Sipho Tembe said that more places had to have public toilets available, suggesting that these must also be along freeways. “When you are really hard-pressed and urgently need to urinate, it is difficult to hold in for a long time. Some toilets that are available where you have to pay R2 to use are a problem. If you do not have that R2 that means you must find a bush.” Philani S Khumalo called on the matter of having to pay R2 at some public toilets to be addressed: “It is an infringement on a human right. Adding to that some areas don’t have public toilets close to where people are, this is an important service delivery. Just think what happens if your stomach is troubling you and you don’t have R2 to use mall toilets. Where do our elderly grannies go to relieve themselves?” Igugu Nethemba LikaGogo said having this issue addressed almost seemed like a pipe dream, as the government struggled to solve the problems of potholes and load shedding. “This is the same government that spent R210 000 for the funeral of a well known musician,” she said. Cassandra Kaye Hanekom-Rogers applauded the actions of the Umhlathuze Traffic Department. “A woman can’t simply ‘sit’ and pee in public, we have to hold it in until we can find a toilet, so men can too. Shopping malls have toilets, fuel stations have toilets, almost every public space has a toilet. Some you have to pay to use so it can be kept clean as the municipality does not always do their job, but that is another topic and argument. Fact is, it is against the law to urinate and or defecate in public, or expose yourself in public. It's high time the metro laws are enforced and fines issued. The rule of law will over time have a ripple effect. And just like degradation occurred we can have some semblance of law-enforcement.” Daily News