Durban — Patients utilising Glen Earle Clinic in Newlands East, Durban, have raised their concerns about non-functioning toilets and general maintenance issues. The eThekwini Municipality said money has been budgeted to carry out repairs. Patients are forced to use the two mobile toilets outside the clinic. A Newlands East resident, who did not want to disclose her name, said she was diabetic and collected her medication every month from the clinic. She said it was frustrating to be at the clinic especially when it was extremely hot. “The clinic has one functioning fan which is at the far corner. The others are just dirty and not working,” she said. The resident added that the issue of toilets was frustrating because it has been years since they were not functioning properly. “I’m a regular there and that clinic is not healthy, if I had money I would get someone to clean it,” she said. She further complained about the security at the clinic and said it was not strict. When the Daily News went to the clinic's gate there was no security guard and we were directed to the two mobile toilets outside as the ones indoors are not working. eThekwini ward 11 councillor Graeme Clarivette said in previous years a budget would be set to repair the clinic but other things would be prioritised. He said the walls of the clinic were also cracking. “It has been years since the clinic was maintained, about eight years or so. The security gate at the back was stolen but never replaced,” said Clarivette. The air conditioners were not working and there was also a shortage of staff. Clarivette said they were expecting a budget allocation in March and hopefully then repairs would start. eThekwini Municipality spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said the City was aware of the issues at Glen Earle Clinic. He said the municipality has put a long-term plan in place to take care of the sanitation challenges and other building issues. “Glen Earle clinic is part of the multiyear upgrade programme in 2023/24 over a projected 3-year period. This year we set aside R200 000 for preliminaries. “In the 2023 financial year projected costs are R500 000. Next year R4 000 000, final year R 1 500 000,” said Mayisela. Mayisela said the upgrade will take care of the ablutions, and a total revamp of the facility and additional buildings for health services. He added that in the interim the health unit has contracted mobile toilets to cater for needs and regular repairs are also being done to existing toilets as and when they need to be fixed. WhatsApp your views on this story at 071 485 7995. Daily News