Durban — A Durban school and a non-profit organisation have joined forces to provide sandwiches for the poor. Danville Park Girls High School’s Head of Interact Club, Lyn Campbell, said that Domino Foundation had its own feeding scheme and the school wanted to join them and make sure they had someone that was able to distribute the sandwiches. Campbell is responsible for Bread Buddies. She said they wanted pupils to recognise that they are global citizens and as such have a responsibility to help those who are not as fortunate as they are. “One of our main aims is to make our learners aware of how privileged they really are and that there are so many children out there who don’t have the luxury of even a sandwich for school. We identify two classes each week and they are asked to bring a loaf of bread and/or peanut butter that Thursday. “In terms of the peanut butter we have a Peanut Butter Blitz as and when we need it, asking for peanut butter donations. “This helps us to keep going as we know that peanut butter is also quite pricey,” said Campbell. Campbell said the inspiration for this project initially started in 2005 when Foodbank approached the school and asked if they would like to contribute sandwiches once a week. Foodbank would then collect the sandwiches and distribute them. They called this initiative Bread Buddies and it has stuck so that although they are no longer involved, the school has still kept the name. “By doing this once a week, we feel that we are able to make more of a difference,” said Campbell. Campbell said that they chose peanut butter as it’s nutritious and offers a child who has limited resources foodwise, a protein-rich snack and is more filling than a jam sandwich. Non-profit organisation Domino Foundation’s Karen Brokensha said it was easy to identify Danville Park Girls’ High School as a partner as they were a neighbouring school to their offices and it also helped with relationship-building within the community. Brokensha said: “The aim of the initiative was to feed learners who were going to school on an empty stomach.” Brokensha said that they chose peanut butter because it was better for transportation and did not make the bread soggy or dry, neither did it need refrigeration. It’s also high in protein and helps sustain energy for longer. Domino Foundation has worked with Clifton School, Northlands Girls High School, Saint Barnabas, Reddam House and Crawford La Lucia. Brokensha also said that the foundation has planned the following for 2023: The Tour Durban Cycle Event is themed #familyfunforeveryone – with Domino Foundation as the main beneficiary – and they would love school learners to both sign up to ride the event or volunteer to serve at the water tables. WhatsApp your views to this story to 071 485 7995 Daily News