Durban — Holiday resorts and residents living under the Ugu District Municipality on the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast have been left frustrated after the piped water supply stopped in some areas. Esmie Britz of the Port Edward Ratepayers Association said this had been ongoing for the last three weeks, and in 2021 they experienced the same problem. Britz said some residents harvested rain, while others paid thousands of rand for drinking water. Britz added that due to load shedding, the Umtamvuna plant could not treat enough water to supply the area needed – inland and the coastal strip between Southbroom and Banners Rest. “The municipality does not have a non-return valve at the Port Edward reservoir, and should Ugu close supply to the reservoir, the water drains back into the system. “Apparently, there are no funds for installing said valve; the outlet and inlet valves also do not close properly,” said Britz. Despite visits by government delegations over the years, the problem of water still persists in 2023. In November 2022, the municipal manager, Dr Elliot Ntombela said culprits were “sucking” out the water from the system and depriving other homes of water supply. He was vocal about legalising the illegal water connections in his area in an effort to curb rampant theft and generate much-needed revenue. The municipality said that an operating regime had been adopted to alternatively shut down coastal – (urban), including KwaNzimakwe – and inland – (rural), including KwaXolo, Shobamdlanzi and Nodalane – supply to allow treatment works and off-channel dams to build up reserves. On their Facebook page, the municipality also laid the blame on load shedding for disrupting systems. Margate business owner and resident Penny Jones said she found it disgraceful that her B&B had been without water since October. “I keep complaining and no one helps. They have said they will send out a plumber, but still nothing. It is unacceptable that as a business, I have to run at a loss due to the water situation,” said Jones. Port Edward ward 1 PR councillor Stephanie Breedt said there was not enough electricity on the grid in KZN to draw adequate water. “We have been waiting for three years for a line to be installed from the Eastern Cape to the Umtamvuna plant. “The community in the Eastern Cape are refusing to give permission for the line to cross their land,” she said. Daily News