Durban — The Public Servants Association (PSA) has blamed Police Minister Bheki Cele for a shortage of alcohol testing kits during the festive season. PSA national manager Claude Naicker said Cele shamelessly blamed the procurement section without taking responsibility for the failure to adequately resource the department and ensure the filling of vacant positions as the SAPS, like other government departments, experiences a chronic shortage of staff. The public and police raised concerns about the shortage of alcohol blood test kits for the December and January festive season. National police spokesperson Colonel Athlenda Mathe said there was a global shortage of the vials, which are a component of the blood alcohol test kit that consists of chemicals to maintain the integrity of the sample until it is tested. Mathe said the supplier had to source the vials from outside the country and they were delivered as early as December 1. She added that these new vials first had to undergo testing before they could be used. Naicker said this failure would create an impractical situation wherein law enforcement officers would have to take all suspected drivers to the hospitals for their blood to be drawn as the same will be needed as evidence in a court of law. “The culprits might escape facing the law due to this incompetence, lack of proper planning, and failure to capacitate government entities. Police and traffic officers will find it difficult to execute their responsibilities. It must be stated that alcohol testing kits are part of the tools of the trade and are as important as being provided with rifles, bullets, safety vests and cars in good condition,” said Naicker. “Law enforcement officials cannot be expected to do their job without being resourced, hence the minister and his committee must take responsibility for failing the workers and the nation,” Naicker added. “Unfortunately, the Health Department is already burdened owing to high hospital admissions during the festive season and the problem is exacerbated by the chronic shortage of staff – hence they are unable to provide health professionals to join the roadblock teams. The minister must swiftly act to address the problem as we expect traffic to increase.” Daily News