Durban — Indian consulate-general Dr Thelma John David has stressed the importance of India-South Africa diplomatic relations, adding that India seeks to find solutions for energy that could meet the world’s energy challenges – including South Africa – as it currently faces load shedding. David stressed the importance of the relationship between the two countries at India’s Republic Day celebration held at the Gujarati Hindu Sanskruti Kendra in Greyville on Thursday evening. David said the community of Indian citizenry in South Africa was the mirror-image of India. South Africa has the largest community of Indians living outside of India. David urged the two countries to work together and strive for the betterment of the lives of the communities. David noted that Africa produces about 50% of the world’s millet products – which can be used to meet the food needed to feed its people – instead of the normal maize, rice and wheat. Food production, as well as the production of millets, can help feed our communities in the face of the world’s food crises – as millets need less water and can withstand the harshest of weather conditions. She also highlighted the importance of the world powers to stress the importance of technology. “Conflict, climate change and the recent strain of coronavirus are the three Cs that pose a challenge to our modern day society,” she said. David added that India was undergoing energy production renewal to try to find solutions to the world’s energy challenges. “The year 2023 holds a lot of hopes for our shared partnership – which promises to be a year of much fanfare as India hosts the G-20 and South Africa takes on the BRICS seat,” she said. Zulu Prince and stalwart politician Dr Mangosuthu Buthelezi said it was important to mark celebrations like this, and to reaffirm the great friendships between South Africa and India. “Since the arrival of the first people of Indian descent in South Africa in 1860, our country has been mostly enriched with much wisdom from our brothers and sisters from India.” Buthelezi further said that he cannot imagine how this country and the kingdom of the Zulu would be without this tapestry brought about by the Indian community. “This year’s celebration is very important because it marks 30 years since the bilateral diplomatic relations between our countries were established in 1993. We look forward to continuing with, and creating more, partnerships for job creation opportunities and boosting rural development among my people,” Buthelezi concluded. Representing the KZN premier’s office, Linda Zama said South Africa wished India light, peace, stability and joy as the world was experiencing turbulence. “Our Indian brothers and sisters have taught us three things. The importance of community, business and education. They were branded ‘black’ like us Africans. And that is why, like Africans, Indians were branded ‘non-white’ during the apartheid times. They were forced to stay in racially-segregated Indian townships,” Zama said. “The support that South Africa, and our KZN province in particular, has received from the Indian community is amazing. “That community responded by building schools to deal with the illiteracy problems, devised methods to deal with the infant mortality challenges and a lot more. “Therefore there are lessons to be learnt from both our communities,” Zama stressed. To mark the beginning of the festivities, a candle-lighting ceremony was presided over by the granddaughter of the late peace activist and politician Mahatma Gandhi, Ela Gandhi. Zama paid tribute to Gandhi, who played a leading role in the women’s movement in South Africa and was among the first group of members of Parliament in our new and democratic South Africa. Daily News