Durban — Menzi High School’s 2022 top-performing matric pupil, Mhlengi Shange, said diligence and focus was how he planned to continue being an achiever in university. Born and raised in Durban’s uMlazi township, Shange, 19, was among KwaZulu-Natal’s top achievers last year and was invited to the awards ceremony which was hosted by the education MEC in Joburg last year. He was awarded a Standard Bank sponsorship of R15 000 for registration. Shange said he also received a further R20 000 through uMlazi Power of Maths and Science with the help of Amazulu FC president Sandile Zungu, while the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants had assisted him with R10 000. When applying to university, Shange said his first choice had been medicine; however, he eventually went with his second choice of chemical engineering at UCT. He said his secret to success was always playing the “fool” with his peers so he could focus. “I come from an area often called “Imjomdolo” because of the tin houses we grew up living in. There are many young people who are hooked on drugs and other wrongdoings due to unemployment and life difficulties in general. “I decided that I’m going to be a ‘fool’ focus in school and church to avoid all that. I had a goal. And it required me to put in the work every single day because only I knew how much I needed bursaries and sponsorships,” said Shange. Shange received a tuition scholarship from Allan Gray Orbis Foundation while in matric. “There is nothing that I got without having to work hard for it. The foundation came to school around February and everyone was offered an opportunity to apply. We wrote about 10 challenging articles in a week or so. There were numerous selections based on them. Some pupils stopped writing due the pressure that it came with as we still had our school work to do. “I couldn't afford that. I came from nothing, just a leaking tin house. I had to make sure my matric certificate was above extraordinary to pave my way to university,” said Shange. “It was post Covid-19 but there were some restrictions in place. I submitted a few pieces of my work without attachments and I didn't even know. I saw my marks dropping and I was stressed until my tutor helped me. There were few people allowed on campus, attending lectures for two hours maximum. I didn't even know who to ask for help,” said Shange. Daily News