Durban — Motorists will have to fork out money for toll fees at the  N2 uThongathi and uMvoti toll plazas from February 2023. Toll fees were temporarily suspended following flood damage to the R102 and M4 near the N2 uThongathi and uMvoti toll plazas. These roads have been repaired.  However toll fees on the N2 uThongathi South Ramps will remain suspended until access along the M4 uThongathi River Bridge has been restored. The South African National Roads Agency SOC Limited (Sanral) has announced that toll collection will resume on the N2 uThongathi mainline and north ramps, and N2 uMvoti mainline and all ramps for all vehicles. Sanral had in April 2022 suspended toll fees at these plazas, to ease the economic burden on communities already hard hit by loss of property and livelihoods because of the floods. The R102 and M4 were alternative routes to the toll plazas, but were so badly damaged that road users were compelled to use uThongathi and uMvoti toll plazas on the N2 to get around. Responding to Sanral’s call, KwaDukuza Residents Forum (KDRF) chairperson Warwick Chapman said KDRF wants to point out that the R102 is only open because of ad hoc repairs that were conducted by local residents, and that the M4 remains closed despite attempts by residents to affect repairs. “SANRAL must collaborate with the department of transport and eThekwini to repair both alternative routes properly before resuming tolling,” Chapman stressed. The DA Transport Portfolio Committee spokesperson Sharon Hoosen urged Sanral to consider the tough economic conditions, and further the high number of motorists who use the toll road to access work every day. “Paying toll fees everyday is also hurting the pockets of residents who are struggling to survive. Therefore Sanral must consider concession cards for those road users, thereby making it more convenient and affordable for them to make use of the toll roads,” Hoosen said. ActionSA’s provincial chairperson Zwakele Mncwango said the N2 highway is still not fully repaired - adding that that stretch of road is not safe to motorists. “What is the rationale for Sanral to resume payments for those two tolls then? We therefore call on the provincial government to repair the parts that are still damaged urgently.” “The road users have been paying for that stretch of damaged road in the vicinity of Umhlali for close to six or seven years now, yet the bridge is still damaged, causing the motorists to use one side of the road only, hence traffic congestion and lots of delays- or even accidents,” Mncwango ended. Daily News