Durban — The SA Weather Service (SAWS) says KwaZulu-Natal residents are likely to continue experiencing extremely hot weather conditions as the heat wave is expected to only end on Tuesday. This comes as parts of KZN, including other cities across the country, have reported uncomfortable heat since the heat wave hit recently.  Most people took to social media platforms stating that they were having difficulties in sleeping at night and with breathing, while others continuously complained about being unable to concentrate at work despite the air-conditioning at offices. SAWS senior weather forecaster Puseletso Mofokeng said in these hot conditions communities were urged to remain out of direct sunlight. “The heatwave is expected to die down on Tuesday. In the meantime, we are urging residents to remain calm and drink lots of water from time to time. This is not limited to avoiding sun rays, direct sunlight and heated places. “If working physically hard, remain hydrated. Take turns to work to catch enough air. This would avoid having colleagues ill with headaches, fatigue and stress,” said Mofokeng. Speaking to a local radio station, forecaster Wiseman Dlamini said the weather was expected to turn cooler over the next few days. “We’re expecting a 60% of rain over the extreme southwestern parts of KZN and 30% up to the Midlands and including the coast, but there is no rain expected for the northern parts or extreme northern parts of KZN. “On Monday (today), only 30% over the south-western parts of the province, then with the coming front on Tuesday (tomorrow) it will be 60% over the southern parts,” said Dlamini. On Friday the City of eThekwini said load shedding and extreme heat were placing a burden on electricity infrastructure. It said it was aware of multiple power outages affecting several areas in eThekwini. The City further stated that despite being inundated by reports of faults, its technicians were working hard to restore power and ease the current pressure on the network. “Overload trips after load shedding are a result of in-rush currents when the power is switched back on. “To minimise overload trips, residents are urged to switch off non-essential appliances during load shedding. These include heaters, air-cons, geysers, stoves and pool pumps. “It is advisable to switch on these appliances in 15-minute intervals,” read its statement. It said load shedding had a negative impact on electrical infrastructure which led to prolonged outages. “The City understands that prolonged outages have an impact on residents and reassures the public that teams are doing everything in their power to restore supply speedily,” read its statement. Daily News