Durban — Pageants South Africa founder Carolyn Botha has expressed her concern that the top pageants in the country do not empower women the way they are supposed to. Botha believes that if pageants were used correctly, they would uplift many in the country. Botha said that Mrs Africa, Mrs Africa Classic and Miss Junior South Africa are some of the pageants whereby they focused a lot on bringing back both women and children’s dignity – the latter with reusable sanitary items. “We also uplift women in Lesotho, eSwatini and the rest of the African continent with our Dignity Dreams Foundation,” said Botha. South Africa finished in the top 16 during the 2023 Miss Universe pageant on Saturday at the New Orleans Morial Convention Center in New Orleans, US. The 71st Miss Universe pageant was won by Miss USA 2022 R’Bonney Gabriel, with Miss Venezuela Amanda Dudamel and Miss Dominican Republic Andreina Martinez. first runner-up and second runner-up respectively. Botha congratulated Miss South Africa 2022 Ndavi Nokeri on finishing in the top 16 but believed that she could have been placed higher. Nokeri’s clothing style could have cost her an opportunity in the top 6 and further progression, she said. She also believed this result helps in uplifting and empowering women. Botha said the role that pageants play in contributing to women empowerment in South Africa is big. “However we find that many pageants say they are there to empower women, yet you find the complete opposite happening. “It is up to the contestants to empower themselves through the pageants and to learn to use the platform of the pageant,” said Botha. Botha noted that Nokeri’s evening gown rolled up around her legs when she turned and that is a big negative in pageantry. She also noted that the colour was not correct for her skin tone as she disappeared on the stage. Had it been gold, it would have made a big difference. She thought that nerves also were a factor as she was aiming to replicate past South African winners in recent times. Nokeri, 23, said she would have loved to have gone further in the competition but was delighted with making it into the top 16. “The whole experience has been beyond my wildest expectations and it has been a true journey of sisterhood. I know that I gave it my all and the Miss Universe experience will be something I will never forget.” The CEO of the Miss South Africa Organisation, Stephanie Weil, said that the organisation was incredibly proud of Noreki and how she represented both the organisation and the country on the world stage. “We believe that she made South Africa proud and her performance was remarkable from start to finish. We look forward to welcoming her home where her Miss South Africa journey will continue,” said Weil. During her time as Miss South Africa, Nokeri launched her highly successful advocacy campaign Ed-Unite – which aimed at equal educational opportunities. Daily News