Durban — An off-duty police officer has been arrested following a shooting on the outfields of the Shark Tank at the weekend. It is reported that the Sharks had hosted a “fun and entertaining” family New Year’s Eve party for its patrons, on the outer fields, following the completion of the Cell C Sharks versus Vodacom Bulls game. In a statement, the Sharks said exactly 20 minutes before midnight on Saturday, an isolated incident involving an off-duty police officer, who was attending the game as a patron and a member of security personnel, occurred. “When our security was asked to escort the patron off the premises due to his non-conducive family behaviour and unruly conduct, the individual in question drew his firearm and shot and struck a security officer on the leg,” the Sharks said. The organisation said the security officer sustained only minor injuries to his leg, however, the bullet ricocheted and struck another patron who was passing by, also in the leg. “Both injured individuals were treated on site and were rushed to hospital, and are both reportedly in a stable condition. We are in constant contact with the injured men and wish them speedy recovery. “The off-duty officer was arrested on the spot, and the matter is being investigated further by the SAPS,” said the Sharks. Explaining security details at the stadium, the Sharks emphasised that the incident happened on the outer fields and did not take place in the main stadium complex, where weapon control is strictly monitored by security personnel at all times. “The Sharks place great emphasis on providing our fans and their families with a fun and safe environment, and we are saddened by this isolated incident, which we condemn in the strongest terms, as it was irresponsible, unnecessary and unwarranted.” A female bystander and witness alleged that the shooter got into a scuffle with security guards. She said: “I was right there when the shooting incident occurred. “The country we live in and the event made us think it was the sound of fireworks. But when I turned around to check, I discovered it was gunshots.” KZN SAPS spokesperson Colonel Robert Netshiunda said the Durban Central Police had arrested a man for attempted murder following an incident in which the suspect reportedly shot and injured two people at the Kings Park Rugby Stadium just before midnight on Saturday, December 31. “Circumstances that led to the shooting form part of the police investigations,” Netshiunda added. Meanwhile, 16 passengers were injured when two taxis collided on the Watson Highway in oThongathi (Tongaat). IPSS Medical Rescue’s Samantha Meyrick said on arrival at the accident scene, emergency teams found two minibus taxis had collided, injuring their occupants. “Patients were stabilised on scene before being transported to various hospitals,” she said. In another incident, a pedestrian died after being knocked down by a vehicle along the R61 near Margate on the KZN South Coast. Chantell Botha of KwaZulu Private Ambulance said the patient was stabilised using Advanced Life Support interventions and then transported to hospital. “On arrival at the hospital, sadly the patient deteriorated and despite all the efforts of Advanced Life Support offered by the paramedics and doctors, the patient succumbed to injuries,” she said. Daily News