Durban — Preliminary indications are that the festive season has been better than anticipated in KwaZulu-Natal, especially the eThekwini region, says the Federated Hospitality Association of South Africa (Fedhasa). According to the federation’s chairperson in the province, Brett Tungay, although there were a few establishments, including beachfront properties, which did not get the tourist numbers they had expected, others had done well. “There were other areas that did extremely well; it’s quite a mixed bag and we will have to wait for the statistics coming out in about February. All we have at the moment is anecdotal stuff from talking to different hotels and resorts around KZN,” he said. Early last month, Tungay said the emphasis was going to be service delivery in KZN’s main tourist areas, and explained that during the 2022 festive season, the sector faced a few extra challenges that were not present in 2021, including problems with the beaches, roads, water and sanitation. On Monday, he said that despite the municipalities not doing much to solve these problems, the sector still had a good season. “I think that what has happened is that we have got a lot of the hotels and resorts have started to become self-reliant in terms of provisions of services that aren’t getting provided by municipalities, and I think that resilience is shining through. A lot of businesses, despite what is happening at municipal levels, are still able to function and offer a service to tourists as they arrive,” said Tungay. Tourism KwaZulu-Natal (TKZN) had estimated there would be a combined tourist spend of R4.1 billion, with projections of 760 000 domestic trips and an estimated 58 000 international tourists. TKZN research also estimated that average hotel occupancy rates for KZN would reach 60% over Christmas and the New Year. This was while KwaDukuza was expected to peak at 80%, Hibiscus 78%, Umdoni 78%, Okhahlamba 70% and Umgeni 64%. TKZN’s Pinky Radebe said the figures for the summer holiday season were still being compiled and were not yet available. “The holiday period only ends on January 15 and the finalised figures will be announced shortly thereafter. However, early pre-Christmas domestic traveller figures for the province, which were communicated with the media, indicate that KZN would do well for the season.” South Coast Tourism and Investment Enterprise chief executive Phelisa Mangcu said the organisation had received positive feedback from its tourism establishments regarding bookings for the festive season. Mangcu said the fact that the KZN South Coast retained Blue Flag status at six of its beaches came at just the right time for the prime holiday season. “As a renowned seaside destination, we have been spreading the message that we are #SummerReady and holidaymakers were delighted that our beaches were open. “The only beach that closed temporarily after heavy rains was Scottburgh Beach in Umdoni. The family-friendly I Love Summer Programme took place at various beaches and hinterland locations, the South Coast also hosted New Year’s Eve celebrations, markets and other events, which were also fantastic for tourism on the KZN South Coast. “In addition to our beautiful beaches, the region is also home to world-class dive sites, extreme adventures, hinterland excursions, coastal forest trails and 11 golf courses.” Daily News