Durban — Two men suspected of being involved in a shooting incident at Siqhopholozi tuck shop  in Savannah Park, Durban, where seven people were killed appeared in the Pinetown Magistrate’s Court on Thursday. The matter was adjourned again because the ballistics report was not filed.  Njabulo Mchunu and Comfort Ngubo are charged with being in possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition. Both men are out on bail.  Their co-accused Nicolas Sphamandla Hadebe, 24, was shot dead, in August 2022, outside his Wyebank home by men travelling in a white Ford double cab with a police registration plate, suspected to be fake. Ngubo was allegedly found in possession of a 9mm pistol as well as 17 rounds of live ammunition and Hadebe in possession of a shotgun and 24 rounds of ammunition, on August 2. The three were said to have been suspected to be linked to the mass shooting in Savannah Park. On the day of the alleged shooting, gunmen opened fire at Siqhopholozi tuck shop killing tuck shop owner Bhekumuzi Mzobe, his nephews Siboniso Mzobe and Sanele Khenisa, as well as Phumlani Mpithimpithi, Sphamandla Shezi, Siyakudumisa Mtshengu as well as a seventh person who died later in hospital. On Thursday in court the State said that the ballistics report which had been outstanding was ready but had not been filed in the docket. "The matter is on the roll for the ballistics report. The investigating officer went to ballistics in Amanzimtoti and was told that it was with Captain Madison. I'm not sure why the report had not been filed. I ask that the matter be postponed for the same to be filed," said the State. Mchunu and Ngubo's legal counsel Mthokozisi Mazibuko asked that the matter be marked final for an adjournment for the ballistics report which has been the reason for adjournments since last year. "The matter has been on the roll for more than six months now," he said. The Magistrate presiding over the case granted Mazibuko's application marking the case final for an adjournment for the ballistics report "and purposes for further investigations". Daily News