Durban — With the increase in teenage pregnancy and concerns being raised by both the departments of Education and Health, Nomagugu Simelane, the KwaZulu-Natal MEC of Health, warned pupils about unprotected sex and teenage pregnancy. Four KwaZulu-Natal schools falling under the eDumbe municipality – Ikusasa Elihle High School, Esiyalwini Primary School, Emagubulundu Secondary and Kanyekanye High School – were visited by Simelane. It was recently reported that Simelane was concerned and shocked when the Christmas babies were born as the youngest mother in KwaZulu-Natal was only 15 years old. Simelane cautioned families to report those who have sex with their children because sleeping with someone under the age of 16 is statutory rape. “We should make sure that those who impregnate children and young girls face the consequences. That is why we call on families that they do not just welcome the damages from someone who has impregnated their daughters, but also make sure that the law takes its course because that person is a rapist,” Simelane said. She said it was important for pupils to focus on things that would help elevate their lives instead of unprotected sex. Simelane said that the schooling careers of girls are disrupted while the boys continue to study. She urged parents to play their role and be open to their children about sex and the importance of protection and abstaining. Not talking to children can cause them to get information that can mislead them, she said, and they end up stumbling in life due to unplanned pregnancy, and contracting sexually transmitted diseases, such as HIV/Aids and syphilis, which is very dangerous. The Minister of Basic Education, Angie Motshekga, said the department was implementing a number of measures to prevent the pregnancy of learners in schools. This comes after numbers released showed that the number of teenage pregnancies in the country continued to increase. Motshekga said they were expanding the coverage of schools offering Comprehensive Sexuality Education using Scripted Lesson Plans to ensure learners were aware of the age of consent and had the skills to protect themselves against sexual abuse and violence. Daily News