Durban — Consul General of India in Durban, Dr Thelma John David has emphasized the importance of the strong bilateral relations that India and South Africa share which spans over centuries in terms of their historic and cultural connect. In an exclusive interview with Daily News editor Ayanda Mdluli, David mentioned that the strong foundation of India and South Africa relationship is in their extensive bilateral engagement and multilateral partnerships like BRICS, IBSA and G20 forum. “I think both of our countries have shown clear political commitment to bring our countries and people together, which is reflected particularly in people-to-people ties of KwaZulu-Natal, Free State and the Eastern Cape provinces, where Consulate General of India, Durban holds jurisdiction.” “The fact that South Africa is home to more than 1 million people of Indian descent reflects the long history and connection between the two countries. The vibrant Indian diaspora is the living bridge across the Indian ocean.” While mentioning that India is hosting the largest global initiative G20 this year, She quoted Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who said that G20 is truly a celebration of the people of India, under the theme of “One Earth, One Family, One Future" which reflects the essence of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam (The World is one Family). “This idea really underpins the core tenets of the relationship and I think it is also important to remember that South Africa will be hosting BRICS this year. She also added that India will be hosting more than 200 events under G20 framework across the country which will culminate with a summit in September. She looks forward to the strong partnership and commitment from both sides in taking this global initiative forward. “In the last few years, we all have faced 3C’s, Covid-19 pandemic, conflict and climate change. Through these shared experiences, we all have realised that both countries need to partner in various ways to find solutions for the benefit of our communities. “For instance, during the Covid-19 pandemic, everyone was affected and no country was spared. This made us realize the importance of global health security issues, and how we must coordinate and partner to find solutions to such global issues. She added that second C – conflicts are impacting all of us, both domestically and across countries with respect to food and energy security. People all over the world are feeling the pinch of the rising food and energy prices, and non-availability of certain commodities. “Under these circumstances, India has taken up initiatives to ensure food security for all countries. She mentioned Prime Minister Modi's support for the super grain-millet, which is an alternative to wheat, rice and maize- which we are all familiar with. India has spearheaded the initiative to promote millets under the rubric of the United Nations- and so, we are celebrating the International Year of Millets this year (2023).” David stressed the fact that Africa is home to about 50% of the world’s millet production. Millets tick all the right boxes from being excellent source of low-glycemic food to being a rich source of micronutrients. She said it is all about making smart choices, choosing the crops that are suitable for sustainable growing, given the environmental impacts of climate changes that we all are facing. “We all are facing challenges and what matters is how we respond to them. India has taken the leadership in trying to bring solutions to the forefront by engaging with the larger community.” David also highlighted the importance of utilising solar energy - which addresses the energy needs of the world, and also mentioned about India's leadership in setting up the International Solar Alliance. “We can partner in such initiatives that are of great importance to both of us. The bilateral and people-to-people ties play important role in this direction.” She also touched on the importance of imports and exports of goods between the two nations- giving the examples of rice imports from India and pulses exports to India. She also said that due to complimenting seasons, South Africa is now able to export mangoes to India even during off season. “There is a huge demand for textiles here and India can partner in this sector. The Consul General also highlighted the importance of digital technology in the economy. She also quoted Mahatma Gandhi’s words, “The world has enough for everyone's needs, but not everyone's greed” in the context of leading sustainable lifestyle. “The Gandhi and Mandela Centre of specialization for Artisan Skills that was signed during the visit of Prime Minister of India in July 2018 is aimed to equip people with technical skills and expertise- which would provide more employability to people. Concluding the interview, David said that India will celebrate 74th Republic Day on the January 26, 2023,  which commemorates the adoption of the Indian Constitution. His Majesty, the Zulu King Misuzulu kaZwelithini will grace the occasion as the chief guest. Daily News