WARNING: GRAPHIC IMAGE BELOW Durban — The family of a 22-year-old man who died after allegedly being tortured by having the drippings of a burning beer case, as well as a tyre, trickled all over his thighs and legs are baffled as three people arrested in connection with his murder were released after the matter was struck from the court roll. The family suspect there might have been some foul play in court, taking into consideration that there was a witness in the matter. Ntando Mchunu was allegedly kidnapped and tortured by people known to him on suspicion that he had stolen meat. According to a source, the aunt of the deceased, Thandokuhle Mchunu, arrived at Ntando’s home and alleged that he had broken into her house and stolen some items, including meat, on New Year’s Eve. Ntando’s mother, Nonjabulo Zakwe, warned Thandokuhle not to hurt her son. Zakwe later heard that Ntando was assaulted on suspicion of theft. It is alleged that he was last seen in a car used by a family member. Community members found the injured Ntando on the side of the road the next day and brought him home. It is alleged that Ntando had been alive when he arrived home. He later reportedly died on the couch on which he was resting. Police arrested three family members and charged them with murder. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala confirmed that there was a case of murder that was investigated by Mountain Rise SAPS after a 22-year-old man was killed and burnt at Haniville. “Sboniso Gumede, 34, Bhekinkosi Mchunu, 39, and Thandokuhle Mchunu, 29, were arrested and charged with murder. They appeared in Pietermaritzburg Magistrate’s Court on 4 January 2023. It is alleged that on 2 January 2023 at Haniville area the suspects kidnapped and burnt the victim after they accused him of stealing,” said Gwala. Before their first court appearance, the case was struck off the roll “without them stepping foot in the courtroom”. A person who had allegedly witnessed his torture and assault took Ntando’s uncle Steven Mlungisi Zakwe to the torture scene. It is alleged that there they found a burnt beer case and a tyre which were allegedly used to torture his nephew in a bid to find the stolen meat. “I was in court on the day they were meant to appear, but we were told they would not come up into the courtroom but would be released. This has left us with many questions, such as did someone get paid to make this go away? This pains us as a family,” Steven said. The National Prosecuting Authority in KZN was on Monday afternoon sent questions for confirmation of the matter being struck off the roll, as well as reasons for this, but no response had been received by the time of publication. Daily News