Durban — The 2022 National Senior Certificate results were released on Thursday. Among the top achievers in KwaZulu-Natal were Umar Kharwa, Troye Swan, Karuna Rungan and Derushka Naidu – who all achieved eight distinctions. Umar, 18, of Westville Boys’ High School (WBHS) said he was not surprised at his results because he had prepared well throughout the year. “You are leaving a large part of your life behind. University is a new chapter; we’re now entering the real world.” Umar intends to study either actuarial science or computer science at UCT. “My message to the class of 2023 is to work hard, do your best.” Umar’s mother, Dr Yasmeen Thandar, said Umar was consistent and disciplined. “As parents, we’re always nervous before the results, but to know he did well is reassuring.” Troye Swan,18, also of WBHS, said he was excited to move on to a new stage in his life. He plans to take a gap year before studying electrical engineering at Stellenbosch University. Troye’s dad, Lance Swan, was impressed with the school’s online section. Karuna Rungan,18, of Eden School in Durban, said: “It’s a bittersweet experience. I am relieved to be done, but at the same time I am leaving this chapter behind. The people I have met made school fun and memorable.” She will study psychology at UCT. Star College’s Derushka Naidu, 17, felt the year was good despite its challenges. She would miss the teachers as they were like a second family to her She intends to study medicine at the University of KwaZulu-Natal. Velabahleke High School’s Olwethu Ndlovu, 17, and Nothando Koza, 18, both achieved eight distinctions. Olwethu said she had to adapt to the challenges of load shedding, floods and Covid-19. She is going to pursue a career in the “male-dominated” sector of neurosurgery. She also thanked her family for all their support throughout her high school journey. “I didn’t want to spend time complaining about Covid-19, load shedding and other misfortunes. I had the goal to pass. At one stage I had to use two candles per night studying; but I reached my target through discipline.” Olwethu hopes to get offers from UCT, Wits and UKZN. Nothando said she couldn’t have achieved this feat without her teachers. “Our teachers dedicated their lives to our success. We had classes from Monday to Sunday, every week, every month without fail. Our teachers would show up on Sundays leaving their families to be with us,” she said. “I can never thank them enough.” Nothando intends to study medicine. Daily News