Durban — Glenwood High School and Durban Girls High School teachers and pupils have described learning about ships, oceanography and marine biology as “incredible and life-changing”. Glenwood High School teacher Leesa Naidoo shared her experiences on the Norwegian ship, Statsraad Lehmkuhl, and that she was happy that pupils got to see science in action. The ship sailed from Maputo in Mozambique to Cape Town from January 3 to 13. During the voyage, Naidoo said they were part of the ship’s crew and were assigned a four-hour watch. The watches took place from 12am to 4am and 12pm to 4pm, and during that time they were assigned tasks that included cleaning the ship, pulling the ropes to set the sails, and making sure the ship was in a condition to operate. “It was an incredible time of learning, growing and gaining awe-inspiring wonder for our one ocean,” Naidoo said. She said that outside the watch hours they took part in lectures and workshops that focused on oceanography and how it linked to fields of chemistry, wave formation, and how satellites could be used with ocean conservation. Glenwood pupils Ethan Govender and Joshua Gillett said they had a fantastic experience. Govender said: “It was a wonderful experience to be on board the Statsraad Lehmkuhl. It was a challenge for me to adapt to the tiring schedule at first. My favourite part of the trip was the collaboration between the 30 nationalities on board.” Gillett said: “It was cramped and difficult at first, but that forced us to learn teamwork and leadership skills. We also made lots of friends and great memories. It was truly the experience of a lifetime.” Naidoo said pupils worked together with some of the researchers and university students, and would have a board game as well as a documentary. Durban Girls’ High School teacher Shonan De Spev said the voyage was a life-changing experience that changed the way they viewed the ocean and sustainability, and through which they had developed bonds of friendship and connection with people from all over the world. Pupil Saphira Shaik said the overall experience was unforgettable. “I thoroughly enjoyed learning about the ship and working with everyone on my watch, as well as learning more about oceanography and marine biology.” Pupil Mpilwenhle Langa said it was a refreshing experience to be part of an expedition that dealt with creating a sustainable future for the ocean – which was an issue that was overlooked. She said she was participating in solving the issue by doing simple things such as saving water while brushing her teeth. “Learning about oceanography alongside scientists and researchers from all over the world was inspiring and enlightening. “Being a part of the One Ocean Expedition has shown me that there are people who care and that there is an optimistic future for our ocean,” Langa said. A spokesperson at the Norwegian Embassy said the pupils were privileged to receive a unique experience. The voyage showed them how to use scientific equipment and help conduct the research. “It is also very important for the expedition itself to receive perspectives from the youth,” the spokesperson said. Daily News