Durban — The State Of the Nation address (Sona) will be delivered by President Cyril Ramaphosa on Thursday night.  He is expected to address various issues that have affected the nation.  We went onto the street to gather people’s views on what to expect and to see if they believe in the President: Sinaye Mathebula. From a business perspective, load shedding affected us big time as our workflow and productivity were not up to par. Our food is getting wasted. Load shedding leads to higher crime – the criminals have the upper hand because they know that a certain area will have no power at a certain time. Nkosingiphile Ncayiyane, 37. As a photographer, I am not happy with what is happening in the country. My work is affected and I am not able to charge my camera batteries. Sometimes you get home and discover that the power has been off for six hours. If load shedding could end, I would be extremely happy. Gregory Brash, 24. I believe President Ramaphosa does say some constructive things but decisions are not always up to him. Yes it will be more difficult for him to implement his plans but I do believe he has the chance to turn this country around. I see that he wants the best for us. He did a good job in maintaining Covid-19 during the national lockdown. Nandha Subramoney, 73. South Africa has changed a lot post-1994. I stay in Chatsworth and it is sad to see that some of my neighbours do not have water for long periods of time. I believe the country and service delivery is getting worse. Thulani Shezi, 28. Things will be worse as there will still be no job opportunities. The country is collapsing. A lot of qualified people are sitting at home due to lack of jobs so the president needs to address this and assist with alleviating this issue. Thomas Evert AKA Gqonqa, 23. I have given up on the government especially with load shedding. This country is full of corruption so I do not have any faith for after the address. Nothing will get better but it will get worse. WhatsApp your views on this story to 071 485 7995 Daily News