Durban — Pedros made one lucky woman’s dreams come true when she beat out three other finalists to win a VW Polo Vivo worth more than R250 000 in their Viva Feva Win-a-Car Competition. The prize give-away event took place at their head office in Durban and was the culmination of a two-month national summer campaign promoting their new Chicken Paella meals (spicy sprinkle chicken pieces, rice and basting sauce). Tens of thousands of chicken loving South Africans flocked to stores around the country to try the new meals and for a chance to win the car and other prizes. But it all came down to the wire for four nervous contestants (two flown in from Johannesburg and one from Cape Town, along with one from Durban) who were randomly selected through a strictly audited process. They were all nervous smiles as the excited crowd of Pedros employees, operations managers and invited franchise partners watched them each randomly choose a box to unwrap. Each box contained a key; however, only one key unlocked the car and that key was in the box chosen by an ecstatic Ntombikayise Koapeng from Johannesburg. Her son rushed onstage to embrace her as the crowd cheered and she was “blasted” with confetti. “I am just out of words,” exclaimed the breathless, slightly overwhelmed mother of two. “I am excited … I just don’t know. Even when I pinch myself it’s like I am in a dream …” Although understandably disappointed, the other contestants did not go home empty-handed. Jo-Anne Berry (from Johannesburg) won a holiday for four, valued at R30 000; Jameela Fakier from Cape Town won Pedros for a year; while a local truck driver from Durban, Sbusiso Dlamini, bagged himself a cruise for two on the MSC Orchestra. Pedros has enjoyed rapid growth over the last couple of years, with almost 40 new stores opened in 2022 alone. The brand specialises in serving flame-grilled chicken at highly competitive prices and now boasts 108 stores countrywide. WhatsApp your views on this story to 071 485 7995 Daily News