Durban — The SANDF Armed Forces Day 2023 parade is expected to boost the coffers and tourism sector of Richards Bay next week. Director of defence corporate communications Brigadier-General Andries Mahapa said the day was one of the most significant events on the SANDF’s calendar and was hosted in different provinces on a rotational basis. City of uMhlathuze communications manager Bongani Gina said the municipality was excited to be hosting the 2023 Armed Forces Day. Gina said the safety of tourists and residents would be a key priority. The City is expecting to host about 15 000 members of the SANDF as well as SA Navy from February 15. “This will definitely give our municipality a big economic spin off. We can confirm that our region’s accommodation business sector, which includes B&Bs, lodges as well as hotels, is fully booked,” Gina said. “We also expect our local garages as well as fast food outlets to receive a high volume of customers. We are expecting a lot of young people who are interested to learn more about SA’s army, and who have interest in venturing into SANDF as a career to flood to the city to learn more about the defence force,” Gina said. Mahapa said with the event the SANDF aimed to honour members who serve the nation with pride, and also pay special tribute to those soldiers who had lost their lives in the line of duty. Mahapa said another aspect was taking the SANDF to the people, thereby allowing communities who ordinarily are not exposed to the armed forces to have first-hand experience and interact with the men and women in uniform and their military equipment. The SANDF equipment on display will include heavy armoured vehicles and weapon systems, SAAF aircraft and helicopters. Mahapa said the Navy’s warships and military health services would also display their capabilities. “A small number of advance teams are already in the area, and volumes began increasing from Friday, January 27 and will reach their peak closer to the commencement of activities culminating in thousands of soldiers descending on Richards Bay,” Mahapa said. WhatsApp your views on this story at 071 485 7995. Daily News