Durban — While Tourism SA tried to defend the entity’s R1 billion sponsorship deal with English Premier League outfit Tottenham Hotspur, the clarification still left a different taste in the mouths of South Africans in KwaZulu-Natal. Tourism SA revealed that the deal would keep the money rolling into the country’s economy although the deal was not yet signed. The Daily News took to the streets to speak to citizens. Doug Moffatt, 53, in Morningside said investing in sports was a good idea, adding that most South Africans – including other countries – were invested in sports. Commenting on the current challenges facing the country, Moffatt said if there was a country without challenges that would be some sort of trick, lie or hiding something. “If you want to know where to put finance you have to look at the interests of the younger generations. “Sports are every being’s conversation and familiar to everyone, whether fans or not. “When I was younger I wanted to get out of the class and house to be out and about. Therefore, investing in sports is not such a bad idea, in fact a good one if you look closer. “Every country has its challenges. But that does not mean there is no way these countries could help each other. “Tourists coming into the country are attracted by what they do not have in their countries, such as game reserves. “If investing in their countries convinces them to visit our country then we should. “Also, soccer in other countries is different compared to ours, so this would encourage South Africans to also visit their countries. “I honestly don’t think there’s anything the tourism sector can do with the issues the country is facing besides ensuring that our economy does not fall on its face,” said Moffatt. Simphiwe George Ndlela, 53, from Morningside said investing within the country would not make any sense as countries were dependent on each other for growth. South Africa is not in a good shape with its current economic status which is still down. “We have had so many people losing jobs through looting and other things. Since then, people are suffering, they are unemployed, they don’t even have money to sustain themselves. “If there is a way for us to assist other countries in order for us to boost our economy then I think we have a shot at winning and boosting our economy, which will eventually boost the people of this country,” Ndlela said. Hope Mbolekwa, 24, said: “Why are they not contributing and assisting departments in the country? “While I understand that municipalities have budgets, it’s not enough and the truth is it is also misused. “But I feel tourism should intervene if there are children and South Africans living in disadvantaged situations. One billion rand could do so much. “Universities are opening soon and there are students with good results with no funding. This is a bit irrational.” WhatsApp your views on this story to 071 485 7995. Daily News Now watch: