Durban — A spat is brewing between the ANC KwaZulu-Natal spokesperson Mafika Mndebele and youth league task team convener Sanele Mbambo.  Mbambo had written a letter to Mndebele on Monday notifying him about the intention to charge him for the ANCYL conference not going ahead. The conference was supposed to elect a new provincial youth structure last year. Mndebele is also the youth league co-ordinator. In a letter which was also leaked to social media Mbambo blamed Mndebele for the collapse of the conference, that he brought bogus delegates which was the main reason the conference could not go ahead because he failed to produce credentials’ report. Mbambo claimed Mndebele put the organisation into disrepute and is the main reason why the youth league in the province had no leadership. Mbambo claimed Mndebele had allegedly given tags to gain access and when he was questioned, Mndebele unleashed security guards he had unilaterally hired. Mbambo accuses him of collecting funds which he did not disclose to the conference preparatory committee. Mndebele described Mbambo as a frustrated man who did not even understand the ANC youth league constitution. He said if Mbambo had read the organisation’s constitution, he would have known that fundraising and hiring of security to ensure the smooth running of the conference was under his office as the convener. Mndebele said he knew that Mbambo wanted to be elected as chairperson but since there were no regions nominating him, Mbambo became frustrated. “It is public information that he and his hooligans collapsed the conference after realising that they were going to lose. We also know that they are working to block the conference from reconvening and elect new leadership which is why he is frustrated,” said Mndebele. The conference took place a week before the 55th party national conference, but collapsed after it became the “festival of chairs”. Security had to form a human wall between factions after pushing and shoving. WhatsApp your views on this story at 071 485 7995 Daily News