Durban — KwaZulu-Natal schools made a splash during the National Aquatics Festival at St Mary’s Waverley in Johannesburg last week. The festival involved various schools nationwide participating in diving, swimming and water polo. The five KwaZulu-Natal, schools that participated across the multiple disciplines were: Durban Girls College, Durban Girls High School, Maris Stella, Our Lady of Fatima Dominican Convent and St Mary’s DSG Kloof. In total, 10 schools participated in swimming, eight in water polo and seven in diving. Some of the schools participated in multiple disciplines. Maris Stella extra murals HOD Leanne Miskey said that the school was proud to be included in this event. She said this was their second participation after first appearing in 2022. Miskey said, “This was our second year at the festival and we are learning more and more about competing with some of the best schools in the country.” Miskey said she was happy with the improvement of the water polo team as they bettered their 2022 result by finishing sixth. In diving, the school was tied sixth with fellow KZN school St Mary’s DSG Kloof. Miskey praised St Mary’s Waverley for the success of hosting multiple schools in a short period. Miskey said, “It was a well-run, prestigious and very festive event that was filled with a lot of parents supporting (it). It had a very good atmosphere.” Maris Stella had 13 first-team members in the water polo section and eight individuals in the diving section. St Mary’s DSG Kloof participated in all three disciplines. They finished fourth overall in swimming, fifth in water polo and tied sixth with Maris Stella. St Mary’s DSG Kloof head of swimming Doné Irving said that although it was a humbling experience, she was proud of the girls’ discipline and determination. Irving said that she was proud of Jessica Carmody, 15, as she got gold in the 200m freestyle. The swimming contingent involved 37 girls. St Mary’s DSG Kloof Water polo manager Michelle Hannan said she enjoyed the tournament as it allowed for the girls to compete and form relationships with local and national schools. “It was nice to see the teams supporting their rival local schools against schools,” said Hannan. Hannan said, “It is great to compete against schools from all over the country. The event has been going for 24 years and is a highlight on the aquatics calendar.” St Mary’s DSG Kloof diving coach Colleen Kelling said, “Our girls are new to competitive diving and we were diving against schools who had national club divers participating. However, our plan was for each diver to dive to the best of their ability and most importantly, to enjoy the experience. I was really proud of each girl.”  Durban Girls High swimming coach Sibani Makhanya said that they did not do well in terms of results but praised the effort. “We finished 10th, which is not so great, but the girls did try their best. It was tough as those schools have top swimmers,” Makhanya said. Makhanya had praise for the organisers and said their facilities were “the best”. WhatsApp your views on this story to 071 485 7995 Daily News