Durban — Former KwaZulu-Natal provincial secretary Super Zuma’s political career has been revived following his appointment as the new Agriculture MEC. KZN Premier Nomusa Dube-Ncube introduced the newly-appointed members of the executive council on Tuesday. Bongiwe Nomusa Sithole-Moloi became the new MEC for Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta). The vacancy was created by the resignation of Sihle Zikalala, who was sworn in as a member of Parliament on Monday. Dube-Ncube said Sithole-Moloi brought a wealth of experience in the field of local government and traditional affairs to the portfolio, which is at the coalface of service delivery and is charged with leading local government and traditional institutions. SitholeMoloi has served as a local government practitioner, councillor and mayor. “She has a strong insight of issues within the traditional affairs institution, and we believe that she will propel this department to even greater heights,” said Dube-Ncube. Sithole’s appointment to head Cogta could have been precipitated by her experience in local government, as she also served as uMgugundlovu district mayor in 2000. Zuma is the new MEC for Agriculture and Rural Development. Dube-Ncube said Zuma has been a member of the provincial legislature serving in various committees with absolute diligence and dedication. Zuma’s career took a dive when he lost a contest for a second term as provincial secretary in 2018. He was defeated by Mdumiseni Ntuli, who also failed to get a second term in last year’s provincial conference. Zuma, who comes from the Moses Mabhida region in Pietermaritzburg, has been chief whip in the legislature since 2019. Dube-Ncube has described as “ground-breaking” the appointment of Judge Thoba Portia Poyo-Dlwati, who was recently confirmed by President Cyril Ramaphosa as the first woman Judge President in KZN. “This affirms that women are leaders in their own right who are capable of occupying the highest leadership positions in society. We have had the opportunity to work with Poyo-Dlwati in various capacities as a judge and legal practitioner, and found her to be a consummate professional,” Dube-Ncube said. “Under her leadership we have no doubt she will lead a judiciary that will continue to exercise its independence and fairness, and which will enhance the standing and integrity of the justice and crime prevention system in building a safe KZN,” she concluded. WhatsApp your views on this story to 071 485 7995. Daily News