Durban — On Sunday, the Religions for Peace Movement South Africa announced that Durban had lost one of its heroes after the death of Paddy Meskin. Having been involved with the movement since 1996, Meskin had more than 20 years of experience. She held many roles within the movement, including that of chairperson before her untimely death. Meskin left her mark on the community and received many tributes from her colleagues. She was involved in creative initiatives and projects aimed at a peaceful coexistence. President and chairperson of RFPSA Sheikh El Walid Saeed said Meskin was instrumental in bringing together prominent interfaith leaders and actors under the banner of RFPSA. “We remember the remarkable work done by Meskin in establishing and fostering good interfaith relations and religious harmony.” RFPSA said Meskin was filled with ideas based on her previous experiences with community and international mobilisation. Education activist Kesavan Kistan said Meskin’s death was a great loss to humanity. “She empowered so many of us to love justice, mercy and to always promote peace.” Kistan said her passion for life and the way she encouraged learners to do better will always be remembered. Shedding light on her work, Durban attorney, Buddhist and activist Jerald Vedan said: “Meskin was a dedicated, determined and inspirational leader in the interfaith movement. She rendered decades of self-sacrificing service to the less fortunate.” Co-ordinator of We Will Speak Out South Africa, Daniela Gennrich, said: “Her life bore so much fruit in establishing a strong interfaith movement in South Africa. May she rest in God’s love and peace, this good and faithful servant of God.” Tributes continued to pour in on social media. Trevor Sproat said it was sad to hear about the loss of Meskin. “I remember her always warm, welcoming and full of humour with such a big heart and always with a smile.” Leon Ahlers said heaven had gained a wonderful daughter. “Our world was blessed to have her as she changed so many lives and worked relentlessly to improve the lives of so many people. The example she set can inspire us all to make this world a better place.” RFPSA extended condolences to Meskin’s children Tamar, Mark and Justine, and all her friends and family. WhatsApp your views on this story at 071 485 7995 Daily News