Durban — In what could be regarded as purging of those who lost in the conference, the EFF in KwaZulu-Natal has recalled two former provincial leaders from the legislature and replaced them with the new leaders. Former provincial secretary Sifiso Mthethwa and former provincial treasurer Linda Mbhele have already resigned; the former provincial chairperson was redeployed to Parliament. Defending their removal, new provincial chairperson Mongezi Thwala said it was not purging since it was a well-known EFF policy that those elected politically must also lead in government to align responsibilities. “We are replacing the three former leaders in the legislature since they are no longer serving in any position in the party. Fighters know that these were not employment but deployment,” said Thwala. Mbhele said they were serving the EFF’s best interests. Their positions would be filled by new provincial secretary Nkululeko Ngubane, deputy chairperson Thobisile Nkosi and deputy secretary Hlengiwe Chiliza. Nomusa Phungula, spokesperson for legislature speaker Nontembeko Boyce, confirmed the speaker has received resignation letters. In the previous leadership only Thwala made a comeback, successfully challenging Khoza in the conference last year. Ngubane, who resigned as uMhlathuze local municipality mayor as per a party decision to end their marriage with the IFP defeated Mthethwa, while Chuma Wakeni replaced Mbhele as treasurer. It was not clear why the Khoza and Mthethwa combination lost the contest after growing the party votes in the 2019 general election, increasing its legislature seats from two to eight. The party also did well in the local government elections in 2021, increasing its councillors in eThekwini from 8 to 24. It also became kingmakers in other local municipalities, helping the IFP retain power in the hung municipalities which saw seven councillors rewarded with deputy mayor positions. In the provincial legislature, premier Nomusa Dube-Ncube was also expected to reshuffle her cabinet following the resignation of Sihle Zikalala, who was Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs MEC. Zikalala was sworn in as a member of Parliament on Monday. It was widely believed that he would be appointed to the Cabinet position when president Cyril Ramaphosa also reshuffles his Cabinet. WhatsApp your views on this story at 071 485 7995 Daily News