Durban — Attorneys representing Anthony Edward Ball, 67, who is alleged to have killed Dean Charnley in an alleged road rage incident in March 2022 on Everton Road in Kloof, are preparing for the pre-trial in the Pinetown Regional Court. Ball appeared in court on Friday. The pre-trial will get under way in three weeks. Charnley’s son who was with him at the time of the shooting was also expected to testify when the trial begins. Speaking outside court, Charnley’s wife Robyn said this was Ball’s third appearance in the trial court and she had anticipated that by now the trial would have begun. She was frustrated at the latest adjournment. Robyn said it was always emotional having to attend court, adding that she was able to do so with the support of her family and friends who accompanied her. “We noticed that every time Ball leaves the court building he collects his gun at the security desk. How can someone who is out on bail still have a firearm? “On January 16 when he appeared, we noticed he had a firearm. A week later it was confiscated from him, but we noticed he had another firearm so it would seem he is living life according to his own law and has no consideration for what happened. He is just carrying on and life is great for him,” said Robyn. She said Ball, since his arrest, had shown no remorse for the alleged offence he was charged with, adding that he had had a smirk on his face during court appearances. “When court is adjourned he has a little chuckle and a smirk, he does not turn around to acknowledge that we are there. He walks in and out of the courtroom while we are there with a smile on his face. It would seem we are dealing with someone who does not have emotions and feelings. He has never approached the family to say sorry for our loss.” At the time of the alleged shooting, police said they arrived on the scene to find a 49-year-old man with gunshot wounds to the chest. Ball’s private defence lawyer J Botha told the court that he needed more time to review documents before the pre-trial. The State’s evidence in the matter was the post-mortem report, the crime scene photo album, a ballistic report as well as statements. WhatsApp your views on this story at 071 485 7995. Daily News