Durban — There was a sombre mood in the Durban cycling fraternity after the death of Veven Naidoo who was hit by a vehicle on the M4 near Sibaya on Saturday. Naidoo, 46, had been a member of the East Coast Cycling Club since 2014. Club chairperson Darryl Harris said Naidoo was one of the nicest people he had met, a real team player and a loyal member of the club. Harris said Naidoo was always up for a club ride, and last Thursday had committed to riding the Maluti Double 90, which is a 180km team ride with the club in Clarens in the Free State.” He said the club would arrange a memorial ride for all members, as well as other cyclists who knew Naidoo, and other clubs in Durban that wanted to show their support and highlight the plight of cyclists on the roads. “We will also be asking our members to ride the upcoming Tour Durban in his memory,” Harris said. Forensic reconstruction expert Craig Proctor-Parker – who has been involved in cycling for more than 40 years – said he thought the incident was shocking, as Naidoo was struck from behind. “Here you have a family man trying to keep healthy. Now his family must suffer due to this. Cyclists do not have facilities. If your child wants to ride a bicycle in Durban, the only possible place is by the Marine Parade in a social capacity. If you want to ride competitively, you have no option but to ride on the road,” Proctor-Parker said. He said that regardless of the road rules and that drivers had the right of way, it did not take much effort to slow down a vehicle and drive around a cyclist. Proctor-Parker said the Cyril Geoghegan Velodrome in Durban was a stadium dedicated to cycling but was inaccessible and dilapidated. “We can’t use that facility, so where do we go?” he asked. Proctor-Parker said the only other area was “the circuit”. He said it was a 5km loop that started on Masabalala Yengwa Avenue and travelled towards the CBD. “Even though there’s a cyclist lane, it is still on the road. Even during hours on the road designated for cycling, cyclists still get hit. Even I got hit,” Proctor-Parker said. He said the eThekwini Municipality tried to assist but was sometimes unavailable. “We as cyclists were looking at extending the 5km loop and route to uMhlanga, but it was never done. Many runners and cyclists use that route all the time. People seem to forget that when you build a route for cyclists to ride on, it’s also a commuter route for those who head to and from work,” Proctor-Parker said. Marshall Security managing director Tyron Powell said the company had apprehended the suspect and located the vehicle believed to have been involved in the incident due to the damage it had sustained. Police spokesperson Colonel Robert Netshiunda said Durban North police were investigating a case of culpable homicide. He said the 34-year-old suspect would make a second appearance in the Durban Magistrate’s Court next week. WhatsApp your views on this story to 071 485 7995. Daily News