Durban — A weeping Durban father of three has made a heartfelt plea for justice to be done and for the three men charged with the murder of the mother of his children not to be released on bail. “What was done to my wife was most brutal. How we found her in that ditch with all those injuries to her head … the building blocks used to inflict the injuries were around her. I believe they also raped her because she had no underwear on. I cannot till today get that image out of my mind,” said Bonginkosi Sgwebela. Nontlahla Matoso was taken from her Malacca Road informal settlement home by her neighbour and two other armed men after they had assaulted her in front of her children and their father, accusing her of witchcraft. It is alleged that the men had forcefully opened the door of the woman’s home and later that day she was found with multiple head injuries at a sports field in Greenfield Avenue, Quarry Heights. She was taken to Dr Pixley Ka Isaka Seme Memorial Hospital where she was admitted to ICU. She died in the hospital as a result of her injuries. The three men charged with her murder, Sibonso Biyela, 35, Bongani Zulu, 45, and Sakhile Biyela, 32, appeared in the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Monday. The matter was adjourned to February 17 for a formal bail application. At the time that the men were arrested, police spokesperson Constable Thenjiwe Ngcobo said that Greenwood Park police were investigating a murder case after an incident in which a woman, 44, was reportedly attacked by her neighbour and unknown men who took her with them. “Reports indicate that she was further assaulted and dumped at a sports field. She was rushed to hospital where she succumbed to her injuries two days later. Police followed a number of leads and three suspects aged 32, 35 and 45 years were traced to Quarry Heights where they were arrested.” Speaking to the Daily News on Tuesday, Sgwebela said he hoped the men would be refused bail as he feared for his life as well as that of his children. “Even after the trial, when they are sentenced, I hope they are handed a lengthy sentence that will see them remain behind bars. One of these men is in the taxi industry, which makes me fear for our lives even more. Since the incident, me and the children have fled from our home for safety.” He said their children, two girls, aged 11 and 7, and a 3-year-old boy were still traumatised by what they had witnessed. “I’m pleading with the justice system to not release these men on bail,” he said in tears. Explaining how his wife was found, he said that children playing soccer on the streets had seen a car driving into the sports field and spotted the mother of his children crying in the car. He said when the children followed the car the men chased them away, pointing firearms at them. The children went to report this to their parents. Sgwebela said when the children’s parents went to the field they saw a body lying in the ditch and they phoned the police. He said they had not buried his wife due to the ongoing investigation. WhatsApp your views on this story at 071 485 7995 Daily News