Durban — The Netcare uMhlanga cardio-oncology unit has been recognised internationally as the first centre of excellence in Africa. The unit was established at the hospital in 2018 by Dr YT Trishun Singh in recognition of the need for a multidisciplinary approach to cancer treatment that requires close co-operation between cardio-oncologists, oncologists, and hematologists to achieve the best possible outcomes for cancer patients. Speaking at the celebration on Thursday Dr Singh said this was a great moment for the country, Africa and Netcare Umhlanga to receive international accreditation from the International Cardio-oncology Society (Icos). Singh expressed gratitude to the hospital for supporting and believing in him when he first introduced the concept of cardio-oncology. “No cancer patient today should be allowed to develop irreversible cardiotoxicity due to cancer therapy, that is chemotherapy, radiation, or both. “Oncologists, hematologists and cardiologists must have some understanding about cardio-oncology and know when to refer the cancer patient for baseline cardiovascular assessment,” said Singh. He added that they needed to understand when to refer cancer patients for baseline cardiovascular assessment, and ongoing during and after cancer therapy. Singh said it was unfortunate that the majority of cancer patients in many instances are being cured of cancer only to succumb to cardiovascular events. “It is my aim as president of the Cardio-oncology Society Of Southern Africa (Cososa) To develop a teaching programme in collaboration with Icos, to upskill haematologists, oncologists, and all professionals involved in cancer care about cardio-oncology. Dr Singh said nearly all classes of chemotherapy and radiation to the chest may cause cardiovascular complications, known as cardiotoxicity, that put patients at greater risk of heart problems. Cardiotoxicity does not just involve the heart muscle, but may also include heart rhythm disturbances, arteries and veins, heart valves, pericardium, and conduction system. Dr Daniel Lenihan, member of the board of directors and immediate past president of the International Cardio-Oncology Society, congratulated Singh and said his work was honourable. He said getting recognition and accreditation was not easy to achieve. “There are several criteria used to judge programmes, including patient volume, research and publications in the field, educational programmes, and cardio projects locally and abroad. We honour what you are doing,” said Dr Lenihan. Dr Cindy Aitton, head of Netcare’s cancer care division, said what Dr Singh had done was truly trailblazing. Aitton further expressed gratitude to Singh for his contributions to all the patients privileged to have been under his care. WhatsApp your views on this story to 071 485 7995 Daily News