Durban — KwaZulu-Natal police and the Hawks netted drugs, guns and gang suspects in separate police operations. Drugs and firearms found on Berea man Marlin Ballantine, 32, will appear in the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Friday on charges of dealing in drugs. The Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks-DPCI) spokesperson Captain Simphiwe Mhlongo said Ballantine was arrested on Tuesday. Police received information about drugs and his alleged involvement in gang-related activities. “Ballantine was apprehended and taken to his place of residence where a search was conducted. Two licensed firearms with live rounds of ammunition were seized and 1 000 Mandrax tablets were also seized,” Mhlongo said. Government employee jailed for Covid-19-related crime The Durban Specialised Commercial Crime Court convicted and sentenced Lungelo Mhlongo, 41, for contravention of Public Administration Management Act. Mhlongo said that Lungelo is an employee in the Department of Education and he failed to disclose his personal interests to the department. He was arrested in July last year and appeared in court several times until he was sentenced to two years’ imprisonment which is suspended for five years on condition that he is not found guilty of the same offence during the period of suspension. Newlands East men killed in shoot-out with cops Two suspects who were sought in connection with murder cases and a string of other gang and drug-related crimes were fatally wounded in a shootout with police on Tuesday afternoon. Police spokesperson Colonel Robert Netshiunda said police had been following up a positive lead when they spotted four suspects in Newlands East, Durban. Upon realising the presence of the police, the suspects fled into the bushes on Galjoen Road and police gave chase. Netshiunda said the suspects started firing shots towards the police and a shoot-out ensued. After the shoot-out, two suspects, aged 16 and 35 years old were found to have sustained fatal gunshot wounds. Two unlicensed firearms and two magazines with ammunition were found in the possession of the deceased suspects. The search for the other two suspects who evaded arrest is under way. Anyone with information about the whereabouts of the outstanding suspects is urged to contact the nearest police or call the Crime Stop on 08600 10111. Tip-offs can also be relayed via the MySAPS App. WhatsApp your views on this story to 071 485 7995 Daily News